- Creating basic #network ing lab for Cisco gear like setup a router and a switch
	- [[How to configure a simple network]]
	-
- Create a route from the lan interface at 192.168.1.0 to the wan network 192.168.99.0 on a Cisco router
	- To create this route, configuration commands would include specifying the source interface, the destination network, and the next-hop IP address or exit interface. Below is an example command:
	  
	  ```
	  enable
	  configure terminal
	  ip route 192.168.99.0 255.255.255.0 192.168.1.1 
	  end
	  ```
	  
	  The breakdown of the command "ip route 192.168.99.0 255.255.255.0 192.168.1.1" is as follows:
	- "ip route" is the command to create a static route.
	- "192.168.99.0" is the destination network you want to reach.
	- "255.255.255.0" is the subnet mask of the destination network.
	- "192.168.1.1" is the next hop IP, which is the IP address to which the router sends the packet to reach the destination network.
	- Here are the steps to create a route from the LAN interface at 192.168.1.0 to the WAN network 192.168.99.0. These steps use Linux ip library and assumes your subnet mask is 255.255.255.0:
	- 1. First of all, open up the terminal.
	- 2. Assuming that the LAN interface is eth0 and the WAN interface is eth1, and the gateway is 192.168.99.1, you would use the following command to add a new route:
	- ```
	  sudo ip route add 192.168.99.0/24 dev eth1 via 192.168.99.1
	  ```
	- This command does the following:
	- 192.168.99.0/24 denotes the destination network you want to route to. The /24 indicates the subnet mask (in this case, it's 255.255.255.0) corresponding to the network.
	- `dev eth1` specifies the WAN network interface through which the traffic will be routed.
	- `via 192.168.99.1` states the gateway through which the traffic is to be routed. In this case, it's the IP address of the WAN network interface.
	  
	  Please make sure to replace eth0, eth1, the IP addresses, and subnet mask with the respective correct values in your network. 
	  
	  After running these commands, your terminal will not output any message. You can confirm that the route was successfully added by running:
	  
	  ```
	  ip route show
	  ```
	  This will show all of the routes on your machine including the one you just added.
	  
	  Please note that this route will not survive reboots unless added to a startup script or network configuration file specific to your Linux distribution. You should consult your operating system's documentation for more information.